This scenario is based on a fictional company:

Botium Toys is a small U.S. business that develops and sells toys. The business has a single physical location. However, its online presence has grown, attracting customers in the U.S. and abroad. Their information technology (IT) department is under increasing pressure to support their online market worldwide. 
The manager of the IT department has decided that an internal IT audit needs to be conducted. She expresses concerns about not having a solidified plan of action to ensure business continuity and compliance, as the business grows. She believes an internal audit can help better secure the company’s infrastructure and help them identify and mitigate potential risks, threats, or vulnerabilities to critical assets. The manager is also interested in ensuring that they comply with regulations related to accepting online payments and conducting business in the European Union (E.U.).   
The IT manager starts by implementing the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF), establishing an audit scope and goals, and completing a risk assessment. The goal of the audit is to provide an overview of the risks the company might experience due to the current state of their security posture. The IT manager wants to use the audit findings as evidence to obtain approval to expand his department. 

Botium Toys: Audit scope and goals 

Summary: 

Perform an audit of Botium Toys’ cybersecurity program. The audit needs to align current business practices with industry standards and best practices. The audit is meant to provide mitigation recommendations for vulnerabilities found that are classified as “high risk,” and present an overall strategy for improving the security posture of the organization. The audit team needs to document their findings, provide remediation plans and efforts, and communicate with stakeholders.

Botium Toys internal IT audit will assess the following:

Current user permissions set in the following systems: accounting, end point detection, firewalls, intrusion detection system, security information and event management (SIEM) tool.
Current implemented controls in the following systems: accounting, end point detection, firewalls, intrusion detection system, Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool.
Current procedures and protocols set for the following systems: accounting, end point detection, firewall, intrusion detection system, Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool.
Ensure current user permissions, controls, procedures, and protocols in place align with necessary compliance requirements.
Ensure current technology is accounted for. Both hardware and system access.

Goals: 

(The goal of an audit is the desired deliverables or outcomes. The goal of an audit can be to achieve compliance, to identify weaknesses or vulnerabilities within an organization, and/or to understand failures in processes and procedures and correct them. 

In this scenario, the IT manager set the goals. He is expecting a report of the current security posture of the organization and recommendations for improving the security posture of the organization, as well as justification to hire additional cybersecurity personnel.)

The goals for Botium Toys’ internal IT audit are:

1. To adhere to the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) 
2. Establish a better process for their systems to ensure they are compliant 
3. Fortify system controls
4. Implement the concept of least permissions when it comes to user credential management 
5. Establish their policies and procedures, which includes their playbooks 
6. Ensure they are meeting compliance requirements 

Current assets

Assets managed by the IT Department include:

● On-premises equipment for in-office business needs
● Employee equipment: end-user devices (desktops/laptops, smartphones), remote workstations, headsets, cables, keyboards, mice, docking stations, surveillance cameras, etc.
● Management of systems, software, and services: accounting, telecommunication, database, security, ecommerce, and inventory management
● Internet access
● Internal network
● Vendor access management
● Data center hosting services
● Data retention and storage
● Badge readers
● Legacy system maintenance: end-of-life systems that require human monitoring

See controls assessment file. 
